
NASA had arranged for the _Xplorer_I_ crew to transfer to the space
shuttle _Columbus_ at the end of a two week scientific mission notable
for including the first Palestinian astronaut, Maj. Hassan al-Nass.
The commander, Jeff Reginard, had know Andrea for years.

alNass: "Sal\=amu `Alaykum", al-Nass greeted Mercuriou fervently,
kissing both his cheeks after shaking his hand during introductions,
then helping the _Xplorer_I_ crew stow their personal belongings in the
attached Spacehab.

David: "You'll be fine in here," he assured them.  "The Spacehab's got
the same life support as the cabin."

After both crews enjoyed a dinner of rehydrated lobster bisque,
al-Nass sailed over to the galley, opened his personal compartment,
and pulled out a bottle of arak.  Somehow, he turned so that the
green, red and black striped flag on his right shoulder seemed more
noticeable than before.

alNass: "Captain, you may live the rest of your life as a dog in an
American kennel, but tonight we celebrate like men."

Andrea raised an eyebrow as al-Nass passed the milky white liquor.

Andrea: "Just out of curiosity, major, what would be the Muslim
solution to the _Xplorer_I_ theft?  Cut off their hands?"

alNass: "So what if it is?  Is the loss of a hand too great a price
to pay for freedom?  We have our checks and balances, too."

Reginard: Commander Reginard exhaled audibly. "I think I like our
checks and balances better."

alNass: "Really, Jeff?!  Let's ask the victim, then - Captain
Mercuriou, would you prefer to lose your hand or spend your life in
prison?"

Mercuriou: "I think I'd give the hand very serious consideration."

alNass: "You see!  And we don't waste our taxes on so many prisons!"

Several of the Americans began to object simultaneously, but al-Nass
ignored them, appropriated the remaining arak for himself and produced
a bottle of vintage port.

alNass: "More to your taste, Captain?"

Mercuriou: "I take it you are a fan?"

alNass: al-Nass sneered, "I listened to your speech," and then began
to laugh. "You're still talking about reforming your government!"

alNass: "Look in your own Bible: A beast comes out of the sea, and
rules with the power of the dragon!  Men worship the beast!  'Who can
make war against the beast?'  The sea is humanity; the dragon is the
power of the masses; _the_beast_is_democracy_!  That's it!  That's
your democracy!  Money, sex, guns!  You're not fixing it!  The most
crushing weapons ever made, for sale to all of your friends!  Ask the
people of Gaza what democracy has done for them!"

Reginard had trailed with al-Nass for a year, had endured two weeks on
orbit with the flamboyant major, and just witnessed him producing and
consuming alcohol, and was not about to back down in an argument now.

Reginard: "The people of Israel can vote..."

alNass: "The people of Israel can not vote!  With their racist
Aliyah, Israel is as much a democracy as South Carolina was in 1860!
Any Jew, anywhere in the world, has the right to return to his
homeland, and becomes a voting citizen upon arrival.  Let every Jew
come back and vote, and let every Arab come back and vote, too.  Then
let's have an election!  Then let's see who wins!  Mercuriou's right.
You define your majority how you want."

Reginard: "We do not define the majority how we want.  It's defined by
law."

alNass: "Who wrote the law?  Obviously non-citizens can not vote.
Clearly the State of Israel can establish its own citizenship
requirements.  You think it's all so cut and dry."

Reginard: "...and what happens if Hamas takes over?  War until
Israel is destroyed?  Then what happens to the Jews?"

alNass: "Well, we're defined more by our limitations than by our
abilities."

Reginard: Reginard laughed. "Great answer!  So were the slave owners
in South Carolina!"

alNass: "All these people sing your hymns, talk about Jesus, loving
and forgiving their enemies, and then they go to work in a war
factory.  Why?  Because they are _defined_by_their_limitations_.
Andrea believes that men can walk on water!"

Andrea: "We can't walk on water because our faith in God isn't strong
enough.  I think that's the answer most consistent with the Gospel."

alNass: "A limitation of faith!  Or perhaps a limitation of reality,
or to accept reality?  But they're finished!  _Finished_!  The Jews
are _finished_!  Your own prophesy!  The third temple must be
destroyed!  Islam will rule again in Jerusalem!"

Andrea: Andrea leaned close to Reginard and whispered in his ear,
"Where did you find this guy?"

Reginard: The shuttle commander shrugged.  "Beats me.  They told us he
was a moderate."

alNass: "A moderate!  I am a moderate!  If I were a radical, I'd have
C-4 instead of caviar in my flight kit!"

