
EVERYTHING WRONG WITH CAPITALISM EXCEPT THE CHRISTIAN CASE AGAINST IT.
CAPITALISM DISCRIMINATES AGAINST PEOPLE WHO ARE GENEROUS.

"Get the hell out of the left lane, fifty-five!"

Congressman Richard Ecks leaned on his horn and zoomed around the
slower car, passing it on the right.  His radio and TV show had been
on the air longer than he had been in Congress, and this harried
commute from his office on Capital Hill to his studio in Fairfax had
become a daily ritual.  He pulled into his reserved parking spot and
hustled inside, skipping the elevator and instead jogging up three
flights of stairs.

"What did I miss?" he gasped as he reached the top, where his producer
met him with a blank stare.

"Nothing.  We're still on with the space captain at nine."

Ecks gulped down one of the steamed broccoli and banana seed
milkshakes that he relied on to keep his 300 pound bulk under control.
He changed, put on his makeup, and drank half of another milkshake at
his desk on the set, then set it out of view as the cameras came on.

Ecks: "Good evening, and welcome to 'Outside the Beltway'."

Ecks: "Capitalism has produced a society with the highest standard of
living that has ever been seen on this planet.  People are well-fed,
well-housed, generally content with their jobs, with a surplus of
leisure time and disposible income.  Yet our opponents slam us
[capitalism] at every turn because they can't stand the idea of people
working hard and getting rewarded for that work.  Now this thief comes
along, this criminal who has taken advantage of our society, stolen
from our businesses and our government, lied, cheated; he comes along
with the nerve to blame capitalism for what?  For letting him take
advantage of our freedom?  For giving him the opportunity to pull of
one of the greatest con jobs in history - the 'Republic of Mars'?  Let
me start by asking you, _Captain_ - how do you justify your theft?"

Mercuriou: "Same way we justified Hiroshima - it had to be done."

Ecks: "Hiroshima?  We were at war, a war they started!"

Mercuriou: "_They_?!  What _they_?  The women and children, the
innocent civilians that died, _they_ started the war?  _They_ attacked
us?  We did what we had to do to win, and there was some collateral
damage.  Same thing here."

Ecks: "And how... what war... again, how do you justify your theft?"

Mercuriou: "It had to be done!  To stop capitalism!  To stop democracy!
It had to be done!"

Mercuriou: "The communists loved to spout off about how they had put
the first man in space, and how they had brought tractors and steel
factories to this backwards, feudal country, and how everyone was
guaranteed an education, and health care, and retirement, and how
wonderful communism was.  And the fascists loved to gush about their
Zeppelin airships, and their autobahns, and how they had pulled
Germany out of a worldwide recession, and how they were rebuilding
their Reich and how great fascism was.  It's all true! but at some
point you see a bigger, a more objective truth.  Every one of these
societies was built on the most viscious traits of mankind, and
captialism is no exception.  `Conflict and competition drive human
progress forward,' they say.  We've see fascism - racial conflict
drives human progress forward, we've see communism - class conflict
drives human progress forward, and now we've got capitalism - economic
conflict drives human progress forward.  All the nice speeches come
down to one thing - social Darwinism.  So if you want want Zeppelins,
or Sputniks, or Microsoft Windows, and these things are more important
to you than your freedom, then pick whichever one of these brutal
philosophies most appeal to you and go sign up."

Ecks: "All this justifies theft how?"

Mercuriou: "It has to be stopped!  Just like facism!  Just like
communism!  Now, I did what I felt I had to do.  I've answered your
question, so move on."

There was a pause, and then another.

Ecks: "Alright, Mercuriou, capitalism may not be perfect, and this
society may not be perfect, but what sets us apart from communism and
fascism is our commitment to freedom."

Mercuriou: "Freedom?  What freedom?  You have the freedom to become a
capitalist, or to work for the capitalists, or to be put homeless on
the streets!"

Ecks: "Well, I guess freedom _is_ limited for people who don't want to
work..."

Mercuriou: "Let's shortcut this debate.  'Work' is a propaganda term
that means 'making money', right?"

Ecks: "No, 'work' means 'work'!"

Mercuriou: "For the capitalist system!  Work
_for_the_capitalist_system_!  You always like to leave that part out!
You carry on like everyone who opposes this society is a lazy bum who
wants to sit around drinking beer and watching Jerry Springer all
day!"

Ecks: "Well, they are what they are!  We reward people who work, not a
bunch of lazy bums!"

Mercuriou: "What's 'work'?  Does a stay-at-home mom 'work'?  Does
someone running a soup kitchen 'work'?  And do they get the same
reward as someone running a restaurant?  If I write software and put
it up on the Internet for free, is that 'work'?  Where's my reward?"

Ecks: "That's a hobby."

Mercuriou: "A hobby?"

Ecks: "Something you do in your spare time.  A job is what you do to
put food on the table.  We have to work in order to eat, Captain.  We
have to work to have houses, cars, clothes, computers, all of it."

Mercuriou: "You dodged my question, Congressman.  Are you defining work
as making money, or doing something productive?"

Ecks: "There's no difference!  That's the beauty of capitalism; people
get rewarded for hard work!"

Mercuriou: "There most certainly is a difference!  We've got people who
make millions throwing a baseball, and people who work their butts off
for nothing!  I want to know if a man running a soup kitchen 'works',
or is it just a hobby?"

Ecks: "Well, if he can solicit enough donations; I'd call it 'work'!"

Mercuriou: "This is capitalism?  Soliciting donations?"

Ecks: "It can be."

Mercuriou: "No, now you're twisting words again.  Capitalism is a
restaurant that refuses to serve people unless they pay; capitalists
do not solicit donations."

Ecks: "It most certainly is capitalism, because the difference between
capitalism and socialism is _individual_freedom_.  You can be a
businessman if you choose, you can be social worker if you choose, you
can be an author, you can be a doctor; it's nothing imposed by the
government; it's your choice!  And maybe you don't like to hear this,
Captain, but what most people want is to _make_money_!  Most people
want the opportunity to better themselves through hard work, not
charity handouts!"

Mercuriou: "Then why don't they work even harder serving people who
can't or won't pay?!  Sure seemes like the only way to get rewarded
for hard work is to slap a credit card form on everything!"

Ecks: "Because in the real world, if you just give everything away,
you'll be out of business."

Mercuriou: "That's right!  That's the 'freedom' of capitalism - you
become a capitalist or you'll be put out of business.  And then if you
won't work for these bums, you'll be put homeless and starving on the
street and all these great, decent people will spit on you as they
walk past and call you a bum who doesn't want to work!"

Ecks: "So who's going to pay to feed all those bums, Captain, the
government, right?  Who's going to make all those evil capitalists do
right, the government!  It's the same old tired story of socialism all
over again."

Mercuriou: "Look, I'm no great politician, and I can't lay out some big
complex political scheme, Congressman, but I can tell you that people
should be generous, not selfish, especially the _leaders_ of society!"

Ecks: "So, you have no answer, Captain, by your own admission you have
no answer!"

Mercuriou: "I most certainly do have an answer!  Your 'capitalist
democracy' is depraved - that's my answer!  Your leaders are trash!
Your entire society is built on forced labor for these bums!"

Ecks: "I know, I know, everyone who wants to make money is trash,
everyone who just wants a better life for themselves and their
children is a bum..."

Mercuriou: "No, Congressman, but a bunch of men determined to outlaw
twenty-first century public libraries before they're ever been created
_are_ trash, they are!  This society isn't going to be remembered for
all this so-called freedom, let me assure you.  It's going to
remembered for secrecy.  The books, the blueprints, the source code,
the circuit diagrams, the manufacturing processes!  All kept secret by
these capitalists determined to keep the whole world dependent on them
and their nightmare system, and then they tell the rest of the world
to 'compete' in their 'global economy'!  They want 'freedom'...  they
want their _own_ freedom!"

Ecks: "Who the hell are you to tell someone else what they can and
can't do with their property?!!  How dare you, you socialist crook,
you shameless thief, how dare you tell someone who's sweated tears and
blood that they have to give everything away for free?!  I've let you
rant on because I felt like listening to your bombast! You're like a
blind man screaming 'You blinked!'  How are you so much better than
all these terrible capitalists?  You're the worst kind of capitalist -
you've stolen millions, billions of dollars to build your own dream!
You needed money - that's why most people go to work in the morning!
That's why all these evil capitalists don't just publish all their
books on the Internet - because the authors need money to write them,
money to print them, money to put food on the table in front of their
children!"

Mercuriou: "I've 'learned my lesson'!  I've figured how to 'get things
done' in the 'real world'!  I've learned to 'compete'!  You crow on
about rewarding people for their hard work!  I couldn't begin to build
this ship without stealing it!  Where's my reward?  Why do you have to
become either a capitalist or a thief to get this kind of
opportunity?"

Ecks: "Captain, you seem to think everyone has to do things your way!
Those authors, they could give everything away like you suggest, they
have that power, they have that _right_!"

Mercuriou: "I am so sick of hearing about people's 'rights'!  Whenever
I hear that word, the next thing I start figuring is 'who's getting
screwed'..."

Ecks: "It's called _freedom_."

Mercuriou: "Freedom?  What freedom?  Under capitalism?  The freedom to
starve if you won't work when you're told?  The lion and the
wilderbeast both have 'freedom', Congressman..."

Ecks: "Captain, capitalism may not be perfect, but if you don't work,
you will not starve, because just about every American city has a soup
kitchen or homeless shelter of one kind of another.  On the other
hand, those who do work can expect to be paid for their labor, and it
is entirely up to them what they do with it.  The abundance of
charities in this country is an elegant testimony to the generosity of
the American people."

Mercuriou: "Sounds great.  Sound like everywhere you go in the U.S, you
must see charity after charity after charity, and occasionally a
business."

Ecks: "There's nothing wrong with running a business.  Where do you
think all that money comes from for those charities?"

Mercuriou: "OK, if those businesses are so generous, why bother with
the price tags?"

Ecks: "Again, it comes down to a simple principle, captain - freedom!
The businessman does not dictate to his stockholders how they should
spend their money.  Instead, the businessman collects revenue from his
customers, uses those revenues to pay the expenses of the business,
and then returns the surplus both to the employees in the form of
bonuses and to the investors in the form of dividends.  It is then up
to the employees and investors how to spend _their_money_.  If they
wish to give to charities, they can do so.  Furthermore, the
businessman has a moral responsibility to operate his business
responsibly, because it _isn't_his_money_."

Mercuriou: "Isn't his money?!"

Ecks: "That's right, captain.  It's the shareholder's money.  For the
businessman to simply give it away as you suggest would amount to
taxation without representation, or to put it more bluntly, theft.
Many capitalists are good, decent people who have founded charities,
started schools and universities, established endowment funds...  Your
ideas sound very noble and idealistic, but how do you put them into
practice?  Force them on people with the government, right?  That's
what it always comes down to."

Mercuriou: Is is time for the "democratic response"?


==================

"See this is what people like you don't understand about capitalism.
It gives people opportunity..."

------

Ecks is going to pull out the line about "work", and Mercuriou's
answer will be "Let's just cut right to the chase and shortcut this debate.
'Work' becomes 'making money'.  There's lots of work you can do..."



Liberalism makes people lazy.  Work this in somewhere (probably Ecks)

------

We can't afford to run non-profit restaurants.

Again, let's get clear on our propaganda terms.  Are you staying
that _in_general_ we can't afford this, or that _under_capitalism_
we can't afford this?

I find this very hard to believe.  You want me to believe that we can
pay pitchers and quarterbacks millions of dollars a year, support
video game, music and film industries that each rake in more than ten
billion a year, blow half a trillion a year on the military, but we
can't afford to feed people in restaurants?  Even if this absurd
proposition were true, it would be an argument for rationing, not
capitalism.

------

One can't live without sustaining oneself.

In one sense, this is obviously true - if most of us don't contribute
meaningfully in some way, we'll all starve.

How do you sustain yourself?  By refusing to do for people unless they
pay you?  How does that sustain anyone?  It makes no sense to say that
people aren't sustaining themselves because they are willing to serve
people that others won't.  Let's face it - we live in a society where
we are FORCED to work.  You're not sustaining yourself; you're doing
what you are FORCED to do by an oppressive and immoral society!

Freedom - can you give people the freedom to choose their own work?

------

and all this bullshit about your "competitors"?!  Who are these people
They're your colleagues, right?  They're the people doing the same
kind of things you're doing, but instead of helping each other, you
try to bust each other's bank account.

-----

Implicit in his argument is the assumption everyone lives that way!


-----

Who's doing to pay for it, Captain?

"The authors pay for it.  They write the books, publish them on the
Internet, give copies freely to anyone who wants them whether they pay
or not, and end up homeless on the streets, because most people take
whatever they can get for free, and slame the door shut on anyone who
can't pay."

-----

Mercuriou: You won't be able to compete because your product is
inferior.  Let's take, for example, Kenya.  Now, what you offer Kenya,
under the guise of "globalization", is a straightforward deal - find
something to sell, something you've got and we want, and then in
return we'll sell you our closed, secret, proprietary technology that
you'll have to pay out of the nose [CA] for.  What I'll offer Kenya is
something else - all the software, the chip masks, the factory
blueprints - everything they need to build their own computers, their
own cell phones, their own data networks.  Now, which of these two
"products" do you think this "customer" will prefer?


Ecks: Freedom for thieves!  That's what you want!  Freedom for thieves!

Mercuriou: What "theft"?  You walk into a museum and take a picture of
the painting, or setup an easel to paint your own copy, nobody calls
that "theft"!  You lift the painting off the wall, put it under your
arm and walk out the door - _that_'s theft!  What you call theft is
nothing more than education, and what you call virtue is a world where
knowledge is a weapon used to maintain an economic and technological
tyranny!  "Give a man a fish, he's fed for a day; teach a man to fish,
he'd fed for life."  Well, the capitalists have a new way - get a
process patent on fishing, then he has to pay you everytime he throws
a line in the water.


Ecks: We need to lower taxes and get rid of government regulation on
private enterprise.

Mercuriou: Then you'll be right back to where you were a hundred years
ago, with massive pollution, key industries run into the ground by
monopolies.

-----


Mercuriou: You're damn right I've got a problem with authority!  I've
got a problem with authority when the people in authority are just a
bunch of self-serving creeps!  Now why couldn't we have just put that
program up on the network?  What is so terrible about that?
