

======


Ecks: A Christian!  So the thief has converted to God!

Mercuriou: I've done wrong... Yet what I've done and what I haven't
done is beside the point.  I'm done arguing with you, Ecks.  I'm
presenting a plan of action to my supporters and you're not one of
them.  I couldn't care less [CA] what you think of my conversion, my
religion, my politics, or anything else.

Ecks: So we just aren't supposed to talk about your screwball
religion, Captain?

Mercuriou: You can talk about anything you want.  If don't have any
questions about my secession proposal, I'll just turn the camera off
now.

There was a pause longer than the satellite delay.

...

Ecks: You seem to have quite a library, Captain.  I'd like to suggest
a book you may have overlooked.  It's called _The_Wealth_of_Nations_.

Mercuriou: I wouldn't argue with Adam Smith's logic, but I'll argue
against his morality!  Take a look at the beginning of that book,
Chapter 2:

He produced a tablet computer and began reading from it.

   In almost every other race of animals, each individual, when it is
   grown up to maturity, is entirely independent, and in its natural
   state has occasion for the assistance of no other living creature. But
   man has almost constant occasion for the help of his brethren, and it
   is in vain for him to expect it from their benevolence only. He will
   be more likely to prevail if he can interest their self-love in his
   favour, and shew them that it is for their own advantage to do for him
   what he requires of them. Whoever offers to another a bargain of any
   kind, proposes to do this. Give me that which I want, and you shall
   have this which you want, is the meaning of every such offer; and it
   is in this manner that we obtain from one another the far greater part
   of those good offices which we stand in need of. It is not from the
   benevolence of the butcher, the brewer, or the baker that we expect our
   dinner, but from their regard to their own interest. We address
   ourselves, not to their humanity, but to their self-love, and never
   talk to them of our own necessities, but of their advantages. Nobody
   but a beggar chooses to depend chiefly upon the benevolence of his
   fellow-citizens.

Mercuriou: Now, is this what we're taught by Christ?  Smith presents a
compelling argument if you're willing to completely ignore its utter
immorality!  The man was another Machiavelli!

Ecks: What's immoral about asking people to pay what something cost to
produce?

Yates: Christ taught us to 'give to all those who beg of you', and
that 'if a man steals your coat, give him your cloak as well'.  Now if
this is how we are to treat thieves, then how should we treat people
who just ask politely?  Not only is Smith's philosophy immoral because
it is based on 'self interest' and 'self-love', but hidden in his
argument is the assumption that everyone actually lives that way.  If
someone adopts the Christian lifestyle instead, she is clearly at a
'competitive disadvantage' because she no longer has the resources
that in Smith's argument are so critical to adjust and balance those
prices.



Ecks: So basically, you want to turn Hawaii into an offshore piracy
haven, where criminals can steal our technology with impunity!

Ecks: How can we compete with a bunch of thieves?!?

Mercuriou: You won't be able to compete because your product is
inferior.  Let's take, for example, Kenya.  Now, what you offer Kenya,
under the guise of "globalization", is a straightforward deal - find
something to sell, something you've got and we want, and then in
return we'll sell you our closed, secret, proprietary technology that
you'll have to pay out of the nose [CA] for.  What I'll offer Kenya is
something else - all the software, the chip masks, the factory
blueprints - everything they need to build their own computers, their
own cell phones, their own data networks.  Now, which of these two
"products" do you think this "customer" will prefer?

Ecks: Freedom for thieves!  That's what you want!  Freedom for thieves!

Mercuriou: What "theft"?  You walk into a museum and take a picture of
the painting, or setup an easel to paint your own copy, nobody calls
that "theft"!  You lift the painting off the wall, put it under your
arm and walk out the door - _that_'s theft!  What you call theft is
nothing more than education, and what you call virtue is a world where
knowledge is a weapon used to maintain an economic and technological
tyranny!  "Give a man a fish, he's fed for a day; teach a man to fish,
he'd fed for life."  Well, the capitalists have a new way - get a
process patent on fishing, then he has to pay you everytime he throws
a line in the water.


Ecks: We need to lower taxes and get rid of government regulation on
private enterprise.

Mercuriou: Then you'll be right back to where you were a hundred years
ago, with massive pollution, key industries run into the ground by
monopolies.


