
		Icarus' Wing

It was a brillent hack.  It was better than the one they did in
college, when the campus news server wouldn't accept posts from the
student lab.  They had recompiled the server with gcc, goten a smaller
executable than the original, altered it so that after printing 502
ACCESS DENIED it went and accepted the post anyway and padded it out
to make the CRC come out right.  They wern't using MD5 back then,
heck, it hadn't even been invented yet.  Then Burns dug through the
engineering and computer science library for the VAX Architecture
Reference Manual, figured how to drop the student workstations into a
diagnostic mode by hitting the little blue button on the back of the
machine, installed packet sniffers on couple of them, and waited a few
days to grab the server's root password as it went by over an
unencrypted telnet.  They went in as root and just dropped the new
server binary onto the hard drive.  It ran for six months unnoticed,
until the staff updated the whole OS installation.  But this hack was
even better.

Brent had been planing it for months.  Well, years really, but months
for this part of it.  He had Burns get a job with MiraCom.  MiraCom
didn't advertise much.  They weren't listed in any web directory.  In
fact, they had a fulltime Internet P.R. officer, one of whose jobs was
to get the company un-listed from any web search engines it managed to
get it's name into.  MiraCom had a handful of clients, but almost all
were state governments, all paid well, and on time, and the directors
had no desire to attrack any more attention than they had to.  MiraCom
was the United States' largest supplier of lottery software.  They
were always on the lookout for sharp programmers.

A typical installation featured a computer in a sealed room, running
exactly and only the MiraCom software, the only output being a video
cable and an RS-232 line over which another computer (several,
usually) were informed of the winning numbers.  Some states performed
a lottery drawing every five minutes.  Various people had ideas to
hack them, ranging from tapping into the router line and hopeing
somebody will come in and type the password in the clear, to Vic's
scheme for an Ethernet wiretap built from a thousand-plus element
phased array to built in the woods across from MiraCom's office park.
Finally, Brent stepped in and showed why he was in charge.  Somebody
just had to go in and get a job with them.  Burns' qualifications were
impecable.

At first he just watched the place, as he went about coding a new 3-D
graphics look for the State of Nevada's lottery.  Back at the rented
apartment, Jasper drilled him for days to read passwords - looking
over Jasper's shoulder as he typed and telling him what it was.  It
was a big pain, Burns hated doing it, and turns out they never used
them, but by the end of the month they had every important password in
the place.

They spent the time getting a good look at the development system.
Brent went right for his favorite program - the gcc compiler.  It was
several years old, and Brent asked Burns to float a question with
management about updating it.  "Skipper" yelped with glee when Burns
returned with the answer.  MiraCom wasn't just turning down the idea;
they were dead set against upgrading the compiler for fear of hackers
putting something "funny" in it.  "This means," Brent spurted after
his bout of laughter and clapping, "that we can change the compiler
with near absolute certainty that they won't just upgrade it away in a
few months."  He didn't want to repeat his college experience of an
upgrade taking away a favorite hack.  The stakes were a lot higher,
too.

Having settled on the compiler, Jasper set to work on the hack, with
Brent watching over his shoulder.  It was designed to disappear into
the binary, recreating itself if the compiler was asked to re-compile
itself, as well as infecting the target program.  Since they weren't
too sure about the target program, Skip had Jasper add another feature
- a third prong of the virus, targeted against the operating system
kernel, that would give them a back door.  Vic continued to work on
some simulation software, but used the lull as a mini-vacation when he
just fixed dinner for everyone and took care of the apartment.  There
were five of them then, and Skip had insisted on taking most of Burns'
salery from MiraCom.  This let them live without digging into the nest
egg Brent and Burns had built up over the last two years.  Burns
grumbled some, but respected the decision; Vic took care of handling
most of the money.

The problem remained of getting the hack into the compiler; probably
the hardest step.  They knew the root passwords, but Burns wasn't
supposed to have them, and the question remained of when could he
successfully use them to hack the main development system.  Brent
again resolved the question - they wouldn't use the passwords at all,
but rather waited until the system was down for a routine maintenance.
Burns made sure he was in the server room that day, working on a
tricky install of a 3-D accelerator on one of the test machines.
Somehow, he just couldn't get the drivers installed right, until
everyone was out of the room for a few minutes.  He slapped a cable
onto a special PCMCIA card that had been siting in the laptop for the
last week, plugged the other end into the server's hard drive, powered
it, hit a three-key sequence on the laptop, which beeped two seconds
later.  Burns killed the power before the CPU had gotten out of BIOS,
replaced the original cable to the drive, and walked away with his
laptop.  Since they weren't using a cryptographic file system yet,
they didn't even have to worry about forging signatures.  He finished
the tricky install in less than five minutes and left, just as the
server workers came back with the new power supply.  He had been
practicing at home.  The whole operation took less than 10 seconds.

Now they leaned back and waited.  Brent found a job for Vic, sending
him off to find some land in the midwest.  Jasper tinkered with the
virus a few more times, but they were already in, so it was just a
matter of copying a file up to the server and running a bizarre little
system call that should just have returned an error but instead jumped
into the file's code at full kernel privledge.  Brent was really
careful every time he used it, because a slipup would crash the system
and that might begin to attract attention.  Jasper tested each
prospective hack very carefully before Brent gave Burns the O.K to
install it.  Three weeks later Burns watched a production system
getting ready to head for Kansas make a Keno drawing.  The night
before, Brent had declared the hack done and handed him a list of Keno
numbers.  They had replaced the random number generator with one of
their own, and Burns couldn't surpress a smile under his face as the
numbers came up on the screen the next day.

With the hack done, the team started to clean up shop.  Burns quit.
Everyone else was heading for the Southwest, and he had never taken
the job because he liked it.  Told his boss he'd had a better offer
elsewhere.  Declined to discuss it.  Was offered a raise.  Politely
refused.  He offered two weeks more work.  Politely declined.  They
handed him his last paycheck and he walked out the door for the last
time.

Vic had located a ranch site in New Mexico; pretty high up, flat, and
twenty miles down a back road.  A good road, though - dirt, but a good
road that trucks could come down.  Brent started to spend money, now -
used trailers for the construction site; a front corporation; phony
building permits for a large dairy.  Vic asked about the money; the
leader just shrugged.  "If the hack works, we've got some cash," he
said, "if not, we've got problems no matter what."  "Do you think we
should stake everything on this hack?"  "No," Brent answered after a
short pause, "but I am."

The break can within six months.  The Kansas state jackpot in the
Pick-Five-Plus had risen to over $11 million.  Brent knew the numbers
would hit.  What kept him up all night was the thought of somebody
else picking the numbers at random.  Nobody did.

Vic had picked the winning ticket, and the doctor revealed in the
limelight.  For the first time in his life, he was in front of
T.V. cameras.  He told his story, his bills from medical school, his
work for the doctors, his work for the clinics, his general
disillusionment with medince.  "Everyone grips about H.M.O.s and
professional assocations and the cost of medical insurance," he told
one press conference.  "If the doctors would just forget about the
money and heal the people who came to them, we wouldn't have all these
problems."  One reporter asked him if he was going to start a medical
philanthropy with the money.  A little grin washed over his mouth and
his mustashe bristled.  "Actually, I'm starting a dot-com".

They called it Robotics Research.  Which wasn't far from the truth.
Brent certainly planed to do a lot of work robotically.  He was also
careful to keep the company's cash burn under a half-million a month,
even considering things like his deal to purchase 60 PCs and 60
laptops for a hundred thousand, complete with wireless networking
cards.  Wireless cards for which they had a amplifier design.  They
just stamped out a small run of 150 circuit boards and soldered them
on.  The dozen young programmers they'd hired started to find some of
the quirks of their management when a hundred of the computers just
disappeared out the door to a remote location know only as "Site Y".
They were still available over the network, though, and they were
starting to run some pretty serious simulation software that would
keep them running all night.  Mostly Jasper's code, Navier-Stokes
equations, wing design, hypersonic flight, that kind of thing.
Robotics Research accumulated a sizable collection of robots, and most
of the software running them was pretty simple.  Just basic remote
control, really.  Boring stuff, and Brent had to struggle to hold on
to some of his brighter employees.  He gave them an orbital mechanics
system to work with and enhance.  No explaination given what a
robotics company would want with orbital mechanics.  Yet the work was
interesting, so most of the programmers stayed on.

Meanwhile, Brent had still been playing the lotteries.  The hack had
worked its way into both Maryland's and Flordia's systems, and Brent
himself decided to have his fifteen minutes of fame in Flordia, then
had Jasper's mom hit it big.  People who knew them well started to
wonder.  If you somebody you know hit the jackpot, it was a big deal,
but three people?  Questions were already starting to rise when New
Year's came around.  The core team got together at a ski resort in
Taos and went back to a rented ski house afterwards.  Vic, as usual,
was the one to question the lottery winnings, and the increasing money
drain.  Brent just stood in the corner and puffed on a joint.  "This
is the year of living dangerously."

Brent had leveraged the roughly $20 million from the lotterys into
about $100 million using fraduent financial statements to get various
loans for land and equipment.


T - 38 days


The programers at Robotics Research were a different story.  Brent
wanted to keep some of them, so decided to drop the bomb.  He called a
meeting of the dozen or so still left, and explained everything.
"This company is a front.  All of the money behind it is stolen," he
said.  At first, nobody said anything.  Then Kim chipped in, "I always
thought something was funny about this place," she said.  "So why have
we been working on all this crazy stuff?" Mike asked.  "Because this
company is a front.  It isn't a dot-com startup.  It's a manned
mission to Mars."

		CHAPTER CHAPTER CHAPTER


Frozen with fear, Dr. Andrea Yeats stared at the young man in his early twenties
sitting in the passenger seat near to her.
His jeans were ripped, his hair unkempt, and his body excuded a faint odor that
betrayed the three days that had passed since his last shower.  His heavy blond
hair and muscular upper body betrayed months of surfing on the Southern
California beaches.  His eyes had narrowed to slits, and his lewd smile
told that the money in her purse wasn't the only thing he'd be taking.


T - 15 days

The police raided two days early.  The "heads up" from the cop turned
out to be deliberate misinformation.  The police bust into the ranch
house early morning, and caught everyone asleep, except Burns, who
was smoking dope and watching TV.

"Where Baccala?" a detective asked him after rounding up the programmers.

Burns shrugged, "not here".

The rest watched on CNN.  "Maybe they'll let 'em go, when they find out
they're small fish."  "With all this Homeland Security crap?  They had
'em locked up tigher than a drum."

Baccala slapped him hand on the table.  "Fuck it.  I said I wouldn't
let 'em hang out there, and I'm not letting 'em hang.  We'll go get
'em with the choppers."

"How, they're already arrested."

"We'll hold up the cops.  Surprise 'em as they move our people to
the jail."

"I'll go," Brian said.  Brent started to object.  "No, I told you you
needed someone for security, and this is exactly what I meant."

They went down in NH-60s, sat the choppers down on an empty mesa twenty
miles away, and waited for the TV to show the police driving out.
As soon as they hit the road, the choppers were in the air.

Brian shot out the lead cop car's engine and jumped onto the ground,
pointing an M-16 at the driver's head.

"Hand on the wheel, now!"

...

"We need another week or two at least."

"We're out of options.  This place is all we've got left."

"So you need a diversion," Brian summerized.  "I'll take care of it."



		CHAPTER CHAPTER CHAPTER


"The problem is populist government - this stupid idea that you can
put the masses in charge of society.  It was talked about by
philophers in the eigthteenth century, brought to power in Europe and
the Americas by a string of revolutions in the nineteenth century, and
brought to fuition in the twentieth century.  What it produced was
fascism, communism, and capitalism - three of the most depraved
societies that have every been seen on the face of this planet.
Fascism, based on brutal, viscious, racial competition; communism,
based on brutal, viscious, class competition; and capitalism, based on
brutal, viscious individual competition.  Now, tell me, what do all of
these things have in common... other than the fact that millions upon
millions upon millions of people went chasing off after every one of
them?"

"The problem with communism wasn't their economic system, it wasn't
the structure of their elections, it wasn't their lack of
constituional guarentees.  The problem with communism was that their
leaders were a bunch of trash with some nightmare system to be jammed
down everyone's throughts.  They were a lot like the people who run
democracy today."

"The problem isn't Bill Gates.  The problem is John Doe.  Walk into
one of these stores anywhere in the Western world without a credit
card or a twenty dollar bill in hand.  Ask for a plate of food.  See
what you get."

"Well, that's perfectly understandable.  If you just give away to
everyone, you'll be put out of business."

"That's right!  That's the 'freedom' of democracy right there - you be
a capitalist or you'll be put out of business.  And then if you won't
work for these bums, you'll be put homeless and starving on the street
and all these great, decent people will spit on you as they walk past
and call you a bum who doesn't want to work... And they're right,
'cause I don't want to work - for them and their brutal system!"



"The majority don't want good leaders," Brent cut in.  His advesary
stuttered and faltered.  "The majority don't want good leaders," the
astronaut repeated, floating weightless on the screens of 10 million
people watching the live interview on Nightline.  "They want garbage
leaders.  They want the most selfish bastards you'd ever want to meet,
with this nightmare capitalist system based on the most vicious traits
of mankind to be jammed down everyone's throughts.  And this time,
nobody can say it isn't really a democracy, that one man took over the
government, that the discedents were 'disappeared', that we don't have
freedom of speech or freedom of the press.  Nobody can claim that this
isn't really what the majority of people want.  Democracy is another
communism."

"Another communism?" Koppel cut it, stunned.  "That's right," Brent
replied, before backpedeling... slightly.  "I don't mean that it's
murdered millions of people, or enslaved half the planet, but it's
another big pile of books and theories that sound real good on paper,
and in practice has produced one of the most depraved societies that's
every been seen on the face of this planet.  People will look back on
this a hundred years from..."  It was more than the congressman could
take.  Visibly redening, now it was his turn to cut off the space
captain.

"Look here, democracy may not be perfect, but it's a damn sight better
than just about anything else out there.  In the last 200 years, we've
abolished slavery, and that alone has to count as one of the biggest
achieve..."  Baccala cut right back in.  The debate had turned into an
intellectual free-for-all.

"The communists abolished slavery, too.  That isn't the point.  The point..."

"Yes it is the point!  Yes it is! Don't go brushing off everything
this country's accompished just 'cause you can't see anything but it's
faults!  We're not perfect, but the majority of this country's people
are decent, hardworking people who want a better life not just for
themselves, but for decent people everywhere!"

The congressman paused for breath, and Koppel chose this moment to
jump in and try to bring the debate back under control.  He decided to
do it by challenging one of the astronaut's more dramatic
claims. "Gentelmen, please.  Captain Baccala, many people critize the
United States, but another communism?  You can't be serious."

"Look here, it's the same with all these populist governments,"
Baccala replied.

"Populist?" the congressmen retorted.

"Yes, populist," the spaceman replied.  "Communism was one of the
biggest populist movements of the twentieth centry.  Millions upon
millions upon millions of people 'believed' in communism.  And they
beleived in it for the same reasons that millions of people in Germany
beleived in fascism, and that millions of people today believe in
capitalism..."  The spaceman paused before letting his bombshell drop.
"...because it's brutal as hell, and that's what 'works' in the 'real
world', and that's what all these millions and millions of people
'know'!"

Congressman Black looked like he was ready to reach through the TV
monitor and rip the spaceman's head off.  He replied in clipped,
measured tones that betrayed the rage he felt at his floating nemisis.

"Communism was a brutual, murderous dictatorship.  And I want to be
very clear on that word - dictatorship.  There was nothing populist
about it in the least."

"Nothing populist about communism?  Then how did it manage to take
over half this planet?  It was the same with the Nazis, elected in
1932, and yes, despite every attempt to claim the contrary, the were
_elected_; France, the French Revolution, whose leaders talked about
liberty, fraternity, and equality, then built guilateons in the public
squares of Paris and chopped off the heads of the nobelmen.  Europe's
first democracy - and every one of those men was elected - Coulton,
Saint Just, Robspierre, and of course, finally, Napoleon."

"Napoleon was elected?" Black sneered.

"He could have been.  He could have won any election in that country.
Bonaparte was one of France's most popular leaders."

"This has been the broken record of democracy for the last two hundred
years.  All these people talk about these grandeose ideas of liberty
and freedom, and then choose abolute garbage for their leaders, and
build societies based on the basest and most vicious traits of
mankind.  This time around it's the capitalists - the most selfish
sons of bitches you'd ever want to meet, and the majority support
these bums every step of the way.  The majority of people are
completely incapable of choosing anything but the worst possible
leaders."

Baccala stopped, and Black didn't retort immediately.  A tense silence
fell over the teleconference.  Across the country, millions of people
in their homes murmorred amongst themselves.  "I don't want to hear
any more of this."  "You tell 'em, Brent!"  "That bastard deserves to
die up there!  I hope the whole bunch die!"  "Is this what people
think about us?"

In New York, Koppel decided to change the subject, since the broadcast
was nearing it's end.  There would be plenty more opportunities for
debate.  "Captain, what are your plans?  How long can you stay in
orbit?"

Baccala's reply was suscinct.  "We're going to Mars."


------ A problem quickly develops.  They've overlooked the need for a
meteor shield and quickly suffered several metor hits.  They deal with
the problem by putting the damaged modules in front of the others, and
some begin talk of a rescue mission and how much it will cost NASA,
and this is why we need regulation, etc, etc.
The Captain decides to break orbit and head higher, away from LEO,
but they'll be beyond the shuttle's range for a rescue.  Meanwhile...

		CHAPTER CHAPTER CHAPTER


Pipi had been fairly quiet and sullen after the Nightline interview.
He continued to do his work, quietly, efficiently, but his opinion of
the captian had irrevokably changed.  He had known him as a driven
man, but had thought he was driven by a thirst for adventure and
exploration.  Now he saw something different - a man driven by rage,
by anger, by thirst for an insane kind of revenge against a society he
hated.  In light of this, the risks of the mission began to loom
large, and the hardships they now faced, only a little more than a
hundred miles above Earth, drove doubt into him about anyone's chances
for survival.  Baccala mentioned several more times that they could
still turn back, but nobody else seemed interested.  Burns largely
ignored politics and concentrated on doing his work, smoking his weed
afterwards, and playing loud rock music.  Vic didn't have as much to
do, but seemed to Pipi to harbor a kind of secret hatred of the world
that only occasionally surfaced.  Once, trying to feel him out, Pipi
asked him if he would want to go back to Earth.  "Over my dead body,"
came the reply, with a chuckle.

Finally, Pipi's simple desire for life won out, and his loss of
respect for the captain broke the man's hold on him.  He came to the
skipper while he was working alone one day on the water recycler, told
him he wanted out, and braced himself for an argument.  Yet Baccala
wasn't that kind of man.  As angry and bitter as he could be while
confronted a distant representative of a hated society, he always
softened up in person.  "You want to think about this, or talk about
it?"  he asked.  "I have though about it, a lot," was Pipi's reply.
"I want to go home."  "I'll see what I can do," Brent replied, and
went back to his work.

Two days later, despite Pipi's misgivings, despite the heated exchange
on television, despite his own contempt for the world they now circled
above, the captain quietly demonstrated what, time and again, would
carry him and his crew through the loney and difficult years ahead.
He put his personal feelings aside to do what made sense for his
mission and his crew.  Over the last few weeks, he had accumulated
a small database of unlisted phone numbers.
He picked up the phone and made one call.

The next day, Andrea Yeats pulled into the parking lot at Johnson
Spaceflight Center and started walked towards her office.  "Becker
wants to see you right away," Vou told her before she made it there.
She set her briefcase down next to her desk and headed across the way
to the director's office.  Lou was already there.

"He doesn't want our help."

"True, but he wants us to do him a favor, and he's willing to do
a favor for us in return."

"Looks like one of his crewman has gotten cold feet.  The kid
from California."  "Really?" Andrea replied, her heart racing.
Becker hadn't called her here just to tell her something
that would probably be on the news within days.  "Endevor is going up
next month, and we've agreed to extend the flight three days to
redevous with them and retrieve this guy."  "Whose idea was
that?"  the engineer asked.  The reply can from Lou.  "Baccala's.  He
called us himself."  "Really?" she answered, with an interested pout.
"That leaves him one down," she noted, her mind starting to race
ahead, but Becker continued before she could think that far.  "He's
offered us the possibility of putting a NASA observer on the flight."
He paused to let the impact of the statement sink in.  Andrea's heart
jumped, her mouth opened slightly and her gaze panned to Lou, who was
looking her right in the eye.  "It's yours if you want it."


	    CHAPTER CHAPTER CHAPTER

"We still haven't decided on a name for the ship," Brent explained.

"Well, can I put my two cents in?"  "Sure"

"You've heard the story of Icarus?"

"Some greek hero, right?"  Baccala replied, vaguely enough to betry
his failure to exactly place the name.

"The son of Daedalus.  The father built wax wings for them both
to escape prison, and Icarus flew too close to the sun, and his wings
melted," Brian interjected.

"That's right," Andrea afirmed, and a moment's silence fell on the group
before people started to chuckle.  Burns finally bust laughing out loud.
Baccala smiled, and noted quietly that his crew had learned to laugh
at the insanity of their undertaking.


------ Two days later, Icarus' Wing break orbit.  Baccala moves the ship
to a six-hour orbit, basically solves the meteor problem this way, and
the crew gets to work.  They've brought supplies for a year before the
crops have to work.

		CHAPTER CHAPTER CHAPTER


"You wouldn't have been using any alcohol or illegal drugs, would you?"

"No," Andrea replied, stiffling the anger she felt at the policeman's
leading question, "I haven't."  She was in Germany for a technical
conference, and been pulled over in her rental car after turning the
wrong way down a one-way street.  If the sign had been in German, she
probably would have understood it, but it was one of these idiotic
"international" pictograms with just a red circle and line.  So now
she was pulled over the side, parked behind a ludicrously small police
car with its funny sounding siren, being questioned by a German
policeman.

"Then how did I get into the driver's seat of your car?" he asked.

The anger vanished, and fear gripped Andrea, terrifying, unreasoning
fear.  How had he gotten into the driver's seat?  He sat there in the
car seat next to her, but somehow she was on the passenger's side.
She opened her month and started to stammer something, then caught the
policeman's eyes as they narrowed and a lewd smile crept onto his
face.  Oh my God, it's him.  Oh my God, not again, she thought as his
hand slid across towards her leg.  She couldn't move, couldn't breath,
couldn't talk, couldn't scream, couldn't do anything but sit terrified
as he moved to touch her... and woke up.


---- They make it first to the astroid belt, where they outfit the
ship with everything missing.  They build a giant carbon sprayer
and in this way fix the two modules that still have meteor strikes
that can't be sealed.  They sprayed the bottom of an old 747
NASA had given them and began to wonder it to would work as a
landing craft.

	     CHAPTER CHAPTER CHAPTER

They had made it back to Earth without incident.  Crouds, cheering,
parties, Andrea vaquely remembered them.  She had settled back into
life as a NASA engineer, and after the initial round of publicity
wore off, back into some kind of routine.  The chance to go to Tokyo
for a conference came up, and she jumped at it.  She was the keynote
speaker, all the media wanted to interview her, and best of all a lot
of people just didn't recognize her as she walked around downtown.
Those who did were invariably polite.  She came back to her hotel
after a wonderful sushi dinner, and was gazing out from her window
at the city below.  Then the door was thrown open, she turned around,
and gasped in fear.

"Think I'd forgotten about you?"  He stood silohited in the light
frame of the door as he walked into the dark room.  Her heart leaped
with fear and her feet were frozen to the ground.  She couldn't
move; couldn't scream... but yelled as she woke up.


	       CHAPER CHAPTER CHAPTER

They'd left as pariahs; they came back as heros.  To some, demigods.

The captain disengaged the mooring clamps and tapped the maneuvering
thrusters to translate away from the docking station.

"Let's go home."
