America, I am announcing tonight my candidacy for President.

The militant capitalists who have dominated our country for years tell
us to "love it or leave it", and that if we don't like how America is
run, then we can "get the hell out".  Tonight I say... let's take them
up on that offer.

My platform is simple - Hawaiian succession.

Those who point to my low poll numbers miss a critical point - I don't
need to win a national election.  I don't even intend to try.  I need
only to win a _Hawaiian_ election.

Under our laws, American citizens are free to travel anywhere in the
United States and establish residency there.  Hawaii currently has
just over one million inhabitants.  Around three quarter of a million
people are arrested each year for marijuana possession _alone_.  So if
just the people _arrested_ in _one_year_ for _possession_ would pack
up and move to Hawaii, we'd easily have enough people to win the next
election.

In the U.S, there are 300,000 registered Greens and 200,000 registered
Libertarians - easily enough to decide a Hawaiian election if they
could set aside their differences and decide on a common platform.

What is that common platform?

First, a solid rejection of capitalism.  This does not mean an embrace
of socialism.  We must always remember that government is a coercive
institution, and that you can not force people to be nice to each
other.  On the other hand, leaders have a weapon more powerful than
laws, and that weapon is the WORD.  We must always seek through
persuasion, through guidance, through LEADERSHIP to enjoin upon our
citizens the need to reject the capitalism philosophy of greed and
replace it with the Christian philosophy of generosity.

So we'll go to our restaurateurs and remind them to feed the hungry.
If they can't pay rent, we'll ask the carpenters and masons to build
them a new building.  We'll ask the farmers to provide them produce.
We'll ask the chefs, waiters, and busboys to work there instead of at
a capitalist restaurant.  And most importantly, we'll ask our citizens
to support those people, who will base their lives on charity, instead
of supporting those who know mainly the pursuit of money.

One of the biggest challenges we face is energy.  We need energy for
lights, heat, transportation, communication.  We need energy to drive
our machines and energy to - our -.  And we are dependent for that
energy on Arab governments and petro-conglomerates.  Energy, short of
the spiritual crisis of capitalism, is the greatest challenge we face,
because practically our entire society depends on it, and nobody can
claim true political or economic independence unless we have energy
independence.

Without economic independence, political independence doesn't mean
much.  "You have freedom," we are told by the cynics.  "We will leave
you hungry, homeless, ill-clad, without tools or training, but you
have freedom - you can vote in our elections."  It's time to take them
up on that offer, too!

Rather than outlawing on-line public libraries, we will commit to
building and maintaining them, by scanning the books in our libraries
and putting them on-line.

As for the capitalist publishers, they can change their name, they can
change their business model, the people who work for them can go on
with their lives and work somewhere else.  But given the current
business model of these publishers, that information is a weapon to be
locked down and controlled for economic gain, they MUST BE PUT OUT OF
BUSINESS.

We can not - WE WILL NOT - tolerate a future where on-line public
libraries are outlawed!

We need to look at our employers the way we look at our politicians.
We need to always remember that we support our economic bosses with
our labor as surely as we support our political bosses with our votes.
When we are faced with employers with immoral, capitalist lifestyles,
employers who have rejected the gospel of Jesus Christ in favor of the
gospel of Adam Smith, employers who expect their employees to support
this depraved philosophy of social Darwinism, then we must treat them
the same way we would treat aberrant politicians - refuse them our
support by refusing them our labor, by "Just Saying No" when told
that we must work for them!

Now let us turn to our political system.  We've got a lot of problems.
We've built the largest prison system in the world.  Our military is
armed with the most lethal killing machines that have ever been
devised by man.  Our flag has become a target of hatred and oppression
to almost as many people as see it as a symbol of liberty and freedom.

There is one central issue, though, that dwarfs all the others, that
drives all the others - CAPITALISM!  It is one of the most depraved
and immoral philosophies that has ever been proposed by man.  It is a
modern day slavery that has corrupted and co-opted our entire society.
NONE of the other issues can be addressed without addressing it first.

The majority of the American people, those few that are still
listening, are dumbfounded at what they hear.  That the police are not
an instrument of social reform; that goods and services should be
free; that books should be on-line; that capitalists must be driven
out from every post of leadership.  They will never accept this.  They
have build their entire society around rejecting this.  And they are
not going to change.

Those of us who reject capitalism face stark choices.  We can continue
to live in a society where we have no voice, no opportunity, and no
future.  We can trickle out in twos and threes, trying to find
someplace in this world that doesn't exist.  Or, we can unite and we
can concentrate.  We can find a place in this world by making it.
We can win an election in one state, and make that state our own.

We can SECEDE!  SECEDE!  SECEDE!

Finally, let me tell you the three most important things about democracy.

We've been told that democracy gives everyone freedom.  It doesn't.

We've been told that democracy will save the world.  It won't.

Freedom is choosing your own leaders.


