
% EVERYTHING WRONG WITH DEMOCRACY.  CAPITALISM IS REGULATED.  GOVERNMENT
% IS RUN BY ITS PEOPLE.  [MISSING A LOT AT THE END]

Senator Patricia Wye had been a fixture on the Washington scene for
decades, first as a dutiful wife and more recently as a power broker
in her own right.  Seated comfortably by the fireplace in the Senate
Reading Room, she looked about her as the commercial break ran.  The
chair was positioned precisely; the coffee cup was filled to exactly
the correct level; an edge of the ornate rug could just be seen on the
video monitor.  She waited until the light came on before smiling, to
make this act seem more spontaneous.  As she fell easily into a
familiar patter with Ecks, the cameraman noted that her frosted blond
coiffure hadn't changed in twenty years.

Ecks: "Senator, what do you say to Captain Mercuriou?"

Wye: "Only that this country is run by its people, through their
elected representatives, and the capitalists do not own everything.
If anything, it's the other way around.  Capitalism is chosen by the
people and regulated by the government."

Mercuriou: "Oh, it's regulated, all right.  You've got laws to
regulate factories, you've got laws to regulate fisheries, you've got
laws to regulate farmers.  If you chose decent leaders to begin with,
you wouldn't need all those laws!"

Wye: "Well, we have to have laws, Captain.  Our opponents wants a
society with no rules, but my vision of capitalism is that of a level
playing field where businesses can compete honestly, officiated by the
government, much like a sports game."

Mercuriou: "Why?  I'll tell you why.  Because otherwise you'll have
two factory owners build on the same river.  One will be clean and
safe; the other one will just dump his waste into the nearest pond.
The first one will go out of business in a year, and the second one
will retire at forty laughing 'Ha ha ha, you can't _com-pe-te_!'"

Wye: "And we don't allow that, captain!  We allow free markets and
free enterprise because they are beneficial to society, but we also
need laws to protect the environment and ensure a level playing field,
so that good corporate citizens are not victimized by abusers.  Would
you have us abandon the Clean Air Act, or the Clear Water Act?  We
have food stamps because we're not willing to let people starve!  We
have social security and Medicare because we're not willing to put the
elderly out on the streets!"

Mercuriou: "And who pays for it all?  More taxes?  Or just run it all
up on the national credit card?  How about a magician pulling a
kerchief out of his fist -- can he do it for the Federal Reserve?"

Wye: "We have to control spending, but we're not doing it by getting
rid of the programs that we have decided are neccessary."

Mercuriou: "Bottom line -- if America is so great and so wonderful,
why do we need all these government programs?"

Wye: "Because these government programs help make our society great!
We allow free enterprise, we allow competition, we allow people to
earn a reward from their labor, but we also have programs in place to
achieve a clean environment, a safe food supply, reliable
transportation, a minimal social support system.  Women and minorities
need protection against discriminatory labor practices, and children
deserve a quality education.  These decisions are made through a
cooperative political process."

Mercuriou: "Your decisions are made on a TV game show, vastly
elaborate, with stages all over the country, and oh so expensive!
You've got to be flying everywhere, giving speeches, buses, banners,
balloons, all kinds of buttons and bumper stickers!  It costs huuuuge
amounts of money to play, the judges watch everything on TV, and they
have an average IQ of 100!  This is what your government has been
since the invention of television!  It's got troops all over God's
creation, enough national debt to last a half century, the biggest
prison state in the world, a wall across its southern border, and now
it's out to enslave the world under globalization!  I call it a Game
Show Government, and it's a disaster of truly Biblical proportions!"

Wye: "We're governed by the Constitution..."

Mercuriou: "You're governed by a TV Game Show!"

Wye firmly grabbed her head, re-adjusted her hair, then laughed.

Wye: "So now you're against democracy..."

Mercuriou: "You bet I'm against democracy!  It's one of the most
tyrannical political philosophies ever!  It's premise is that one
group of people are somehow entitled to rule over everyone else just
because there's more of them!"

Wye: "We have a participatory democracy, Captain!  The people can
petition their government to change the laws, and if enough people
support them, the laws _will_ change!"

Mercuriou: "You didn't say the people could _participate_!  You said
the people could _choose_their_own_leaders_, but in fact only the
majority get to _choose_their_own_leaders_; they do it on a TV Game
Show; everyone else participates, and loses!  Hell, I'll take
'participatory government' any day!  You participate, and I'll make
all the decisions!  I'll even have my own TV Game Show!  What do you
say?"

Wye: "What do the majority want!  What about the people of this country?!"

Mercuriou: "Oh, get off re-re-repeat!  What's so sacrosanct about that
magic 51 percent?"

Wye: "You'll have a dictatorship, captain, but I suppose that's what
you had in mind all along.  The bottom line is that the people of this
planet have decided on democracy and we're not going back!"

Mercuriou: "I don't care.  It's not the bottom line; not for me.  I
won't accept it.  None of us should.  All the majority cares about
is getting rich, getting tough, and getting laid!  They aren't
entitled to rule over everyone else's lives!  Nobody has that right!"
