
Ecks' final guest on the program was the Reverend Caiaphas Zee, a
prominent Southern Baptist minister who had formed a mega church
empire after a failed presidential bid, and now seemed content to
advise the politicians he could not supplant.  Standing in his pulpit,
clad in a black cassock and starched white collar, a simple
wooden cross hanging from a cord around his neck, he seemed the very
personification of a prophet of God.

Zee: "Captain, you are a liar and a thief!"

Mercuriou: "I've said everything I intend to say on that issue."

Zee: "Then let me say more!  We have laws not because they are made by
man, but because they are commanded by God!  We are told 'thou shall
not steal'!"

Mercuriou: "If that's all you want to debate..."

Mercuriou reached again for the switch, but Zee thundered on.

Zee: "Throw the switch, Captain, go ahead!  That's all I want to
debate!  'Thou Shall Not Steal'!  'Thou Shall Not Steal'!"

Mercuriou paused, then threw the switch.  Nothing happened.  He grinned.

Mercuriou: "OK, Reverend, so maybe I won't switch you off just yet."

Zee: "Thou Shall Not Steal, Captain, _Thou_Shall_Not_Steal_!  God's
laws _command_ capitalism!"

Mercuriou: "God's laws or man's laws?"

Zee: "God's laws, Captain, God's laws!  No sex!  No drugs!
And one more... _Thou_Shall_Not_Steal_!"

Mercuriou: "No sex?"

Zee: "Don't you play word games with me, mister!  You know what I
mean!  Marriage between a man and a woman!"

Mercuriou: "Yet capitalism is moral... _why_?"

Zee: "Because God does not allow the government to steal!  We tithe to
the church, and the government is to tax a small portion more for law
enforcement.  And many people give quite a bit more than ten percent
to the church, let me assure you.  We have some _very_ generous
members in our congregation."

Mercuriou: "You've got this nightmare of capitalism that's another
slavery all over again..."

Zee: "It is not!  We don't bind men in chains to force them to work!
You should have been a politician; instead you chose to be a thief!
Now nobody will listen to you!  Now I'm throwing the switch!"

Ecks interrupted before Mercuriou could fire back.

Ecks: "Well, our time is growing short, captain, and it looks like our
prison system is going to remain a little short, too.  I don't think
it's worth the expense to apprehend you right now."

Mercuriou now broke out into a long, genuine laugh.  Ecks paused for a
moment, then kept talking.

Ecks: "I suppose there's no harm in leaving you be.  You'll eventually
have to come back down.  In the meantime, when you make it Mars, if
you make it to Mars, do us a favor.  Have the dignity to plant an
American flag there.  It's the least you can do for the country that
footed the bill."
