
% ANSWERS THE RELIGIOUS RIGHT WHY CAPITALISM IS IMMORAL AND ROMANS 13
% DOESN'T REQUIRE OBEDIENCE TO THE GOVERNMENT.  CAPITALISM COMMANDED (OR
% NOT) BY GOD.

Ecks: "Reverend, do you take Captain Mercuriou's 'conversion'
seriously?"

Zee: "No, I do not.  He has switched from theft to insurrection, not
from the Devil to Christ.  We are taught that government authority is
constituted by God."

Mercuriou: "Where that is taught by Christ?"

Zee: "Romans 13, it's taught in Romans 13, Captain: 'Everyone must
submit himself to the governing authorities, for there is no authority
except that which God has established'."

Mercuriou: "That's a letter of Paul.  I asked for Christ."

Zee: "It's in the Bible!  If you don't believe in the Bible, you're
no Christian!"

Mercuriou: "I am a Christian, not a Biblian."

Zee: "The Bible is the inspired word of God.  You're no Christian!"

Mercuriou: "I take the Bible seriously, not literally.  Paul was the
greatest missionary in the history of the church, but he was not
Christ.  He knew God, but he didn't come back from the dead.  His
teachings don't have the same weight, that's why we don't print them
in red.  I don't buy Romans 13.  Jews in Nazi Germany had a moral
obligation to wear yellow stars?  Because it was the law?  Because
their leaders were established by God?"

Zee: "A dictatorship..."

Mercuriou: "No, Paul didn't say that.  He didn't say that our
obligation to obey the laws depended on the form of government!  There
is nothing in Christ's teachings which gives us some moral obligation
to obey the laws.  In fact, one of the
main themes of _Revelation_ is the presence in this world of
governments that are _not_ ordained by God.  Do Cubans have a moral
obligation not to meet and criticize their government?"

Zee paused for a moment and collected his thoughts.  What had
happened?  Had Mercuriou in fact converted?

Zee: "So, government is evil; people should do whatever they please?"

Mercuriou: "No, but our _moral_ obligation is not to obey the laws of
government, but to obey the laws of God!"

Zee: "And if you decide the laws are unjust, then you decide yourself
to ignore them?"

Mercuriou: "Yes.  That's what people did in Russia, that's what people
did in Germany.  That's what people did here in 1776!  That's what
Rosa Parks did in 1960!"

Zee: "Rosa Parks was a brave woman, yet this isn't Russia, and this
isn't Germany!  Part of the law of God is obedience to legitimate, constituted
authority!"

Mercuriou: "So now we're going to 'interpret' Romans 13, eh?  I prefer
to look to 1 Samuel 12, where the prophet says 'If you will fear the
LORD, and serve him, and obey his voice, and not rebel against the
commandment of the LORD, then shall both you and also the king that
reigns over you continue following the LORD your God... But if you
shall still do wickedly, you shall be consumed, both you and your
king.'"

Zee: "We don't have a king!"

Mercuriou: "Then you shall be consumed, both you and your democracy!
The point isn't the method of government, it is a warning against the
wicked leadership which abounds in this world! And a far more accurate
assessment it is than the truckling Romans 13! Legitimate government
is Godly government."

Zee: "I'll agree with that."

Mercuriou: "So is capitalism Godly?"

Zee: "Capitalism is _commanded_ by God!  The civil magistrate has a
God-given duty as a minister of justice, and is not to exceed that
duty!"

Mercuriou: "I'm not talking about the government!  I'm talking about
the man who owns the restaurant!  Is it Godly to deny a man food if he
comes to the door hungry!"

Zee: "Send him to a food bank and support it with charity."

Mercuriou: "Remember the rich man and the old woman? The rich man went
to the synagogue, gave a big donation. The old woman gave two
bits. Christ then asked which of them went away redeemed. Now stop for
a minute. How would capitalists answer? How would the majority
respond? 'Look at how much good can be done with that rich man's
generosity! Look how many people can be helped!  He worked hard to
earn that money, now he gives it back! You can run a soup kitchen for
a month with what he gave! What can you do with two bits? You can't
even buy a homeless man a cup of coffee. The old woman might as well
have not even given anything!' But Christ told us that the old woman
goes away redeemed... why? Because she gave everything!"

Zee: "We're not socialists! You have no right to tell that man who he
has to serve!"

Mercuriou: "No, I don't have that right. But Christ did! He said 'give
to all those who beg of you'! It's the only _Godly_ response, and
therefore the only legitimate one!"

Zee: "Love doesn't require me to hand a crackhead $20 to blow on drugs!"

Mercuriou: "Yes, it does!", Mercuriou crowed, again taking out his
tablet. "That's what happened to Andrew van der Bijl in 1954:"

   The last round in the game was the most subtle of all. It was December
   30. I had to have my application in the mail that day if it was to get
   to London on the thirty-first.

   At ten o'clock in the morning, one of the students shouted up the
   stairwell that I had a visitor. I ran down the stairs thinking that
   this must be my delivering angel. But when I saw who it was, my
   heart dropped. This visitor wasn't coming to bring me money, he
   was coming to ask for it. For it was Richard, a friend I had made
   months ago in the Patrick slums, a young man who came to the
   school occasionally when he just had to have cash.

   With dragging feet I went outside. Richard stood on the white-pebble
   walkway, hands in pocket, eyes lowered. "Andrew," he said, "would you
   be having a little extra cash? I'm hungry."

   I laughed and told him why. I told him about the soap and the razor
   blades, and as I spoke I saw the coin.

   It lay among the pebbles, the sun glinting off it in just such a way
   that I could see it but not Richard. I could tell from its color that
   it was a shilling. Instinctively I stuck out my foot and covered the
   coin with my toe. Then as Richard and I talked, I reached down
   and picked up the coin along with a handful of pebbles. I tossed
   the pebbles down one by one, aimlessly, until at last I had just the
   shilling in my hand. But even as I dropped the coin into my pocket,
   the battle begun. That coin meant I could stay in school. I wouldn't
   be doing Richard a favor by giving it to him: he'd spend it on drink
   and be thirsty as ever in an hour.

   While I was still thinking up excellent arguments, I knew it was no
   good. How could I judge Richard when Christ told me so clearly
   that I must not. Furthermore, this was not the Royal Way! What
   right had an ambassador to hold on to money when another of the
   King's children stood in front of him saying he was hungry. I shoved
   my hand back into my pocket and drew out the silver coin.

   "Look, Richard," I said, "I do have this. Would it help any?"

   Richard's eyes lit up. "It would, mate." He tossed the coin into the
   air and ran off down the hill. With a light heart that told me I had
   done the right thing, I turned to go back inside.

   And before I reached the door the postman turned down our walk.

   In the mail of course was a letter for me. I knew when I saw
   Greetje's handwriting that it would be from the prayer group at
   Ringers' and that there would be cash inside. And there was. A
   lot of money: A pound and a half -- thirty shillings. Far more than
   enough to send my letter, buy a large box of soap, treat myself to
   my favorite toothpaste -- and buy Gillette Supers instead of Blues.
   The game was over. The King had done it His way.

Mercuriou: "1954! 1954! Not 72 A.D.! 'Another of the King's children
stood in front of him saying he was hungry!' That should posted on the
counter of every restaurant in America, not a VISA symbol!"

Zee: "This isn't the Will of God! You're just a bunch of druggies!
This isn't the Will of God! You're just a bunch of druggies! This
isn't the Will of God! You're just a bunch of druggies!"

Zee seemed stuck on re-re-repeat, so Ecks switched him to the standby
track.

"Well, Captain, you'll be in a prison cell by tomorrow afternoon.  I'm
sure that your plans for Hawaiian secession will go the way of the
Republic of Mars."

Mercuriou: "Check the best seller charts, Ecks.  You don't even know
how well the Republic will do yet."
